 Ryzen 9 7950X: AMD&#039;s elite CPU beats but also doesn&#039;t beat Core i9 - Video encoding of 41 - HWCooling.net Skip to content HWCooling.net User About us Contact Advertising Donate Search Search for: Primary Menu Tests CPU coolers Fans Graphics Monitors Motherboards Notebooks Networks PC cases Power supplies Processors SSD coolers Storages Processors Graphics Storages SSDs HDDs Cooling CPU coolers SSD coolers Fans TIMs Motherboards PC cases Notebooks Ryzen 9 7950X: AMD&#8217;s elite CPU beats but also doesn&#8217;t beat Core i9 Extra tests , Processors | 15. 2. 2023 22. 3. 2023 | Ľubomír Samák We saved our tests of the most powerful Ryzen 7000 processor for last, for a number of reasons, as the last &#8220;X&#8221; model to expand the results database from this generation. The Ryzen 9 7950X, with its 32 threads, stands up to its 32-threaded competitor in the form of the Core i9-13900K with sovereignty, despite having eight fewer cores. Some might even state that it is the more cost-effective processor. But it comes down to your own point of view. HandBrake Test environment: For video conversion we’re using a 4K video LG Demo Snowboard with a 43,9 Mb/s bitrate. AVC (x264) and HEVC (x265) profiles are set for high quality and encoder profiles are “slow” . HandBrake version is 1.3.3 (2020061300). Disclaimer: For big.LITTLE-based processors, the result is missing in some tests. This is because they didn&#8217;t scale properly with P cores and the achieved performance was too low. In such cases it is indeed possible to force performance on all cores, but this does not happen by default at the user level. To avoid creating the illusion in some cases that measured results such as those presented in the graphs are normally achieved, we omit them. However, these are a negligible fraction of the total set of test results. x264 and x265 benchmarks SVT-AV1 Test environment: We are encoding a short, publicly available sample park_joy_2160p50.y4m: uncompressed video 4096 × 2160 px, 8bit, 50 fps. Length is 500 frames with encoding quality set to 6 which makes the encoding still relatively slow. This test can make use of the AVX2 i AVX-512 instructions. Version: SVT-AV1 Encoder Lib v0.8.7-61-g685afb2d via FFMpeg N-104429-g069f7831a2-20211026 (64bit) Build from: https://github.com/BtbN/FFmpeg-Builds/releases Command line: ffmpeg.exe -i “park_joy_2160p50.y4m” -c:v libsvtav1 -rc 0 -qp 55 -preset 6 -f null output.webm Contents Hide --> AMD Ryzen 9 7950X in detail Methodology: performance tests Methodology: how we measure power draw Methodology: temperature and clock speed tests Test setup 3DMark Assassin’s Creed: Valhalla Borderlands 3 Counter-Strike: GO Cyberpunk 2077 DOOM Eternal F1 2020 Metro Exodus Microsoft Flight Simulator Shadow of the Tomb Raider Total War Saga: Troy Overall gaming performance Gaming performance per euro PCMark and Geekbench Web performance 3D rendering: Cinebench, Blender, ... Video 1/2: Adobe Premiere Pro Video 2/2: DaVinci Resolve Studio Graphics effects: Adobe After Effects Video encoding Audio encoding Broadcasting (OBS and Xsplit) Photos 1/2: Adobe Photoshop and Lightroom Photos 2/2: Affinity Photo, Topaz Labs AI Apps, ZPS X, ... (De)compression (De)encryption Numerical computing Simulations Memory and cache tests Processor power draw curve Average processor power draw Performance per watt Achieved CPU clock speed CPU temperature Conclusion Previous page Next page 5nm AMD procesory processors Raphael Ryzen 7000 Ryzen 9 Zen 4 Related articles Post navigation Nvidia preparing launch of GeForce RTX 4070, planned for April GeForce RTX 4060 leak: lowest-power mainstream GPU since Pascal Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Latest comments Mark Maga on Phanteks T30-140: Exceptionally efficient XXL fan Hello, what would you recommend for exhaust fans Noctua G2 or the Phanteks T30 because... Ľubomír Samák on Questions for Noctua: Tell us what you’d like to know Well, we’ll see—we’ll ask these questions. I’m curious myself whether the fans on the single-tower... dearlinko on Core i5-12400 with DDR4 test: Meet the fresh bestseller The comparison of the Core i5-12400 against the Ryzen 5 5600X was especially interesting, especially... Victor on Questions for Noctua: Tell us what you’d like to know Does Noctua have plans to update the NH-U12A for new G2 fans? Or is this... Ľubomír Samák on Is There Anything You Would Like to Know About HWiNFO? Do Ryzen 9000 processors really run significantly cooler than Ryzen 7000 processors at comparable power... Ľubomír Samák on Questions for Noctua: Tell us what you’d like to know We see your question and you’re likely to find the response in the interview. :)... Ľubomír Samák on Questions for Noctua: Tell us what you’d like to know We’ll ask all three questions. We already covered the white fans back when they disappeared... Ľubomír Samák on AMD Chipset Cards Adding PCIe, SATA Lanes Emerge in China For there to be a chance of a PCIe card like this making it to... fairy tale names on Fractal Design Momentum 14 RGB: Top-class in every aspect The Fractal Design Momentum 14 RGB is impressive with its white finish and high-quality LCP... Alphabetical list of hashtags Akasa AMD APU architecture Arctic artificial intelligence Asus BeQuiet! Blackwell chladiče CPU Cooler Master cooling CPU CPU coolers drivers fans Fractal Design GDDR6 GeForce Gigabyte giveaway graphics cards HWCooling Intel M.2 manufacturing nodes motherboards MSI Noctua Nvidia NVMe PC cases PC skrinky power supplies procesory processors Radeon Ryzen Scythe SilentiumPC SSD SSD coolers ventilátory zdroje základné dosky About us Contact Advertising Donate All rights reserved © 2025 Spravujte svoje súkromie To provide the best experiences, we and our partners use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us and our partners to process personal data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site and show (non-) personalized ads. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions. Click below to consent to the above or make granular choices. Your choices will be applied to this site only. You can change your settings at any time, including withdrawing your consent, by using the toggles on the Cookie Policy, or by clicking on the manage consent button at the bottom of the screen. Funkčné Funkčné Always active Technické uloženie alebo prístup sú nevyhnutne potrebné na legitímny účel umožnenia použitia konkrétnej služby, ktorú si účastník alebo používateľ výslovne vyžiadal, alebo na jediný účel vykonania prenosu komunikácie cez elektronickú komunikačnú sieť. Predvoľby Predvoľby Technické uloženie alebo prístup je potrebný na legitímny účel ukladania preferencií, ktoré si účastník alebo používateľ nepožaduje. Štatistiky Štatistiky Technické úložisko alebo prístup, ktorý sa používa výlučne na štatistické účely. Technické úložisko alebo prístup, ktorý sa používa výlučne na anonymné štatistické účely. Bez predvolania, dobrovoľného plnenia zo strany vášho poskytovateľa internetových služieb alebo dodatočných záznamov od tretej strany, informácie uložené alebo získané len na tento účel sa zvyčajne nedajú použiť na vašu identifikáciu. Marketing Marketing Technické úložisko alebo prístup sú potrebné na vytvorenie používateľských profilov na odosielanie reklamy alebo sledovanie používateľa na webovej stránke alebo na viacerých webových stránkach na podobné marketingové účely. Statistics Marketing Features Always active Always active Manage options Manage services Manage {vendor_count} vendors Read more about these purposes Prijať Odmietnúť Spravovať možnosti Uložiť predvoľby Spravovať možnosti {title} {title} {title} Spravovať súhlas 
