 
 
 
 
 

 SVT-AV1 V3.0 is Now Available | Alliance for Open Media 
 



 
 
 
 
 


 



 





 





 

 


 











 


 

 
 



 
 

 
 
 





 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 Skip links 
 
 Skip to primary navigation 
 Skip to content 
 Skip to footer 
 
 

 
 You are using an outdated browser. Please upgrade your browser to improve your experience. 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Alliance for Open Media
 An Alliance of Global Media Innovators 
 
 
 About
 
 
 
 
 Story 
 
 FAQ 
 
 Members 
 
 Organization 
 
 Legal 
 
 Contact 
 
 
 
 The Future of Innovation is Open 
 
 AV1 adoption 
 
 Specifications
 
 
 
 
 All Specifications 
 
 AV1 
 
 AV2 
 
 AVIF 
 
 IAMF 
 
 Open Audio Renderer (OAR) 
 
 ID3 Timed Metadata 
 
 AFGS1 
 
 
 
 Resources
 
 
 
 
 Products and services 
 
 Open source 
 
 Videos and Webinars 
 
 Logo 
 
 
 
 Get involved
 
 
 
 
 Join 
 
 Adopt 
 
 Contribute 
 
 Research 
 
 
 
 News 
 
 
 
 Toggle search 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle menu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 


 
 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Home 
 
 
 > 
 
 
 
 
 Blog posts 
 
 
 > 
 
 
 
 
 SVT-AV1 V3.0 is Now Available 
 
 
 
 

 


 
 
 
 


 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Follow 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 Custom Social Profile Link
 
 
-->
 
 
 

 
 


 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 SVT-AV1 V3.0 is Now Available
 
 
 
 
 May 21, 2025 | 
 
 




 2 minute read

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 The AOMedia Software Implementation Working Group (SIWG) is excited to share
SVT-AV1 V3.0, a major release that represents an important improvement in
performance and includes a few key bug fixes. Scalable Video Technology (SVT)
refers to the ability of an encoder to scale its performance according to the
compute capabilities of the platform on which it is running, essentially
allowing it to use the maximum amount of allocated resources to achieve the
highest possible video quality. SVT-AV1 is an open-source, CPU-based AV1
encoder. It is an AOMedia project that provides an AV1-compliant open-source
encoder library. 

 Why is this update important? 

 The latest release of SVT-AV1 delivers significant performance improvements
along with a major API update, including: 

 
 A clean-up of unused fields, use stdbool type, and redundant parameters in
svt_av1_enc_init_handle 
 Repositioning the presets and removing one preset resulting in a max preset of
M10 in the current version 
 Addition of a temporal layer and averageQP fields in output picture structure,
along with an option to specify a QP offset for the startup GOP 
 

 The API changes are not backwards compatible. More details about the changes can
be found in issue
 2217 . 

 The release also featured some key encoder updates, including: 

 
 Improved mid- and high-quality presets and quality vs. speed tradeoffs for
fast-decode 2 mode:
 
 ~15-25% speedup for M3-M10 at the same quality levels 
 ~1% BD-rate improvement for presets M0-M2 
 
 
 Repositioning of the fast-decode 1 mode to produce ~10% decoder cycle
reduction vs fast-decode 0 while reducing the BD-rate loss to ~1% 
 Further Arm Neon and SVE2 optimizations that improve high bit-depth encoding
by an average of 10-25% for 480p-1080p resolutions beyond the
architecture-agnostic algorithmic improvements since
 v2.3.0 
 Porting of several features from SVT-AV1-SPY fork to further improve the
perceptual quality of tune 0 mode 
 Added lossless coding support and an avif mode to reduce resource utilization
when encoding still images 
 

 Finally, SVT-AV1 also released two follow-up minor releases v3.0.1 and v3.0.2
that includes a cleanup build, bug fixes and documentation, specifically: 

 
 Removal of the third party cpuinfo code in favor of using one provided by the
system. (For those without cpuinfo, it will be pulled and compiled into the
library, similar to before) 
 Improved unit test coverage for Arm Neon and SVE2 code 
 Updated documentation 
 

 Where can you find it? 

 The latest SVT-AV1 release can be
 found on GitLab .
Please take a moment to give it a try and report feedback. Your input helps
drive the continued improvements that benefit us all. 

 Thank you to all the members of the Software Implementation Working Group and
the vibrant open source community for their ongoing contributions. Your hard
work makes these updates possible. 

 Follow AOMedia on
 Reddit ,
 LinkedIn 
and Instagram . 

 
 

 
 
 


 


 
 
 

 
 Categories: 
 
 
 
 
 Blog Posts 
 
 
 



 
 Updated: May 21, 2025 
 
 

 
 
 Share on 
 

 Twitter 

 Facebook 

 LinkedIn 
 


 
 
 
 Previous 
 
 
 Next 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 You may also enjoy 
 
 
 



 
 
 
 
 
 Alliance for Open Media Publishes Open Audio Renderer (OAR) v1, Advancing Open Spatial Audio
 
 
 
 
 




 2 minute read

 
 
 
 
 2026-07-30 
 
 
 Reference implementation strengthens the open immersive audio ecosystem with
production-ready rendering for loudspeakers and headphones

 
 
 

 
 



 
 
 
 
 
 AV2: What the Final Specification Means for Implementers
 
 
 
 
 




 3 minute read

 
 
 
 
 2026-07-27 
 
 
 The Alliance for Open Media has reached a significant milestone in open video
coding with the official release of the AV2 specification.
While the announceme... 
 
 

 
 



 
 
 
 
 
 AOMedia Video Codec Working Group Announces Availability of Libaom v3.14 “Pinkie Pie”
 
 
 
 
 




 5 minute read

 
 
 
 
 2026-07-23 
 
 
 The AOMedia Video Codec Working Group is pleased to announce that libaom v3.14,
aka “Pinkie Pie,” is now available. This release makes available all the
impr... 
 
 

 
 



 
 
 
 
 
 Alliance for Open Media Releases AV2 Codec, Advancing Next-Generation Open Video Coding
 
 
 
 
 




 2 minute read

 
 
 
 
 2026-06-06 
 
 
 Wakefield, Mass. – June 9, 2026 - The Alliance for Open Media (AOMedia)
today announced the release of the AV2 specification. AOMedia is a standards
organiza... 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 Enter your search term...
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 Follow: 
 

 
 
 
 LinkedIn 
 
 
 
 YouTube 
 
 
 
 Reddit 
 
 
 
 
 
 GitHub 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 RSS 
 
 

 © 2026 Alliance for Open Media · All Rights Reserved · Project of the Joint Development Foundation · Terms of Service 

 
 

 
 
 
 







 













 
 

