 v3.0.2: Supernova · BlueSwordM/svt-av1-psyex · Discussion #13 · GitHub Skip to content Navigation Menu Sign in Appearance settings Platform AI CODE CREATION GitHub Copilot Write better code with AI GitHub Copilot app Direct agents from issue to merge MCP Registry Integrate external tools DEVELOPER WORKFLOWS Actions Automate any workflow Codespaces Instant dev environments Issues Plan and track work Code Review Manage code changes Code Quality Enforce quality at merge APPLICATION SECURITY GitHub Advanced Security Find and fix vulnerabilities Code security Secure your code as you build Secret protection Stop leaks before they start EXPLORE Why GitHub Documentation Blog Changelog Marketplace View all features Solutions BY COMPANY SIZE Enterprises Small and medium teams Startups Nonprofits BY USE CASE App Modernization DevSecOps DevOps CI/CD View all use cases BY INDUSTRY Healthcare Financial services Manufacturing Government View all industries View all solutions Resources EXPLORE BY TOPIC AI Software Development DevOps Security View all topics EXPLORE BY TYPE Customer stories Events & webinars Ebooks & reports Business insights GitHub Skills SUPPORT & SERVICES Documentation Customer support Community forum Trust center Partners View all resources Open Source COMMUNITY GitHub Sponsors Fund open source developers PROGRAMS Security Lab Maintainer Community GitHub Stars Archive Program REPOSITORIES Topics Trending Collections Enterprise ENTERPRISE SOLUTIONS Enterprise platform AI-powered developer platform AVAILABLE ADD-ONS GitHub Advanced Security Enterprise-grade security features Copilot for Business Enterprise-grade AI features Premium Support Enterprise-grade 24/7 support Pricing Search / Sign in Sign up Appearance settings You signed in with another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. You signed out in another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. You switched accounts on another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. Dismiss alert {{ message }} BlueSwordM / svt-av1-psyex Public Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Notifications You must be signed in to change notification settings Fork 14 Star 183 Code Issues 14 Pull requests 1 Discussions Actions Projects Security and quality 0 Insights Additional navigation options Code Issues Pull requests Discussions Actions Projects Security and quality Insights v3.0.2: Supernova #13 BlueSwordM started this conversation in Show and tell v3.0.2: Supernova #13 BlueSwordM Apr 22, 2025 · 0 comments Return to top Discussion options Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . {{title}} Something went wrong. Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Quote reply BlueSwordM Apr 22, 2025 Maintainer Good evening anyone who's reading. It's been a considerably amount of time since we were stated to release, but here we are. This will be the last BIG release of svt-av1-psy for a long while. I'll be starting to port over all of the relevant features to mainline svt-av1. However, even after all relevant features will have been ported, I won't be working on "mainline" svt-av1-psy anymore; all future feature additions, bug fixes and optimizations will be done on an svt-av1-psy "fork". Some members wish to distance themselves from the project for reasons I won't discuss here; they're not harmful to the svt-av1-psy project, those members just want to leave their work on svt-av1-psy as history. Getting back on topic, we've decided to release our current coup-de-grâce efforts, svt-av1-psy 3.0.2: Supernova. We're going out with a bang! PSY Updates Features --sharp-tx has been added and enabled by default; it disables conventional transform optimizations to provide a sharper output overall. In 2.3.0-B, it was enabled by default for tune 0/3. It has the effect, although unintended at the time, of making psy-rd much stronger, which is why it has been kept default. However, for improved user control, we've decided to make it a user controllable setting. --hbd-mds has been added as a setting. It can be used to change the bit-depth of the mode decision pipeline. By default, it respects presets defaults. At 1/2/3, it forces 10-bit+ (HBD) mode decision, 8/10-bit hybrid mode decision and full 8-bit mode decision. It has been made available because on faster presets, especially with psy-rd, forcing 10-bit mode decision can make a huge difference to quality. Quality & Performance --psy-rd can now be used with all tunes. --psy-rd has been optimized to slighly increase encoding speed. High quality svt-av1-psy psy-rd has been added, and is activated at --psy-rd>=0.6 while using presets 6 and slower. It can considerably increase the strength of psy-rd, greatly increasing visual quality at no rate cost. It's been implemented hrough some careful mode decision changes that occur when psy-rd influence is significant enough. The reason behind not implementing by default and limiting it to slower presets (<=P6) is that it has a non negligible speed penalty, which gets problematic for the fastest presets; it only provides it at higher psy-rd strengths, justifiying the limiting it to -psy-rd>=0.6 . --spy-rd levels have been added for greater control over the visual tradeoff that spy-rd pathways provide. The available levels are 0/1/2: 0 is default, with spy-rd disabled. 1 is fully enabled spy-rd (intra mode decision sharpness and interpolation sharpness modifications) and 2 is partially enabled spy-rd (interpolation sharpness modifications only). --sharp-tx 1 --psy-rd 0.5 has been made default to increase high fidelity encoding performance. --noise-norm-strength 1 is now default. It provides a decent visual quality increase with minor tradeoffs. The recommended strength for tune 0/3 is still --noise-norm-strength 3 . Bug Fixes The 8-bit psy-rd path has been fully fixed by @juliobbv --tune 2 now behaves as expected. Changes against mainline Full alt-ref temporal filtering quality has been restored to Preset 2 since it provided a significant increase in quality to alt-ref TF in darker scenes. The intra lambda RDO value has been reverted to 2.3.0-C values, from 50 to 65, to improve low light performance. While the change did improve energy retention in brighter scenes, it actually made dark scene performance worse. Changes from mainline --frame-luma-bias has been changed to --luminance-qp-bias , following mainline's implementation. --lp threading behavior has changed and it has resulted in some svt-av1-psy features to not be bit-exact when --lp>1 . This is expected and will not be adressed. Like mainline, --adaptive-film-grain is now enabled by default internally. In a future release, I will add a special feature to make encoder grain synthesis much stronger. A bunch of other optimizations, bug fixes, and lots of ARM64 NEON SIMD for you ARM64 peeps. Support Us As SVT-AV1-PSY's codebase has become more complex and the encoder's capabilities have increased dramatically, our efforts have scaled in kind. We have poured hours into coding, testing, distributing, and supporting this piece of open-source software entirely for free, and our work isn't stopping any time soon. This time, I've been all alone in rebasing, reworking and fixing bugs from some stuff that wasn't entirely our fault :) If you appreciate the work that we do and you'd like to support us, we are always excited to see code contributions from outside of the core development team. Otherwise, you can support us monetarily via the links below. Julio Barba : Coming Soon BlueSwordM : Coming VERY Soon Clybius : Coming Soon Gianni Rosato : Donate You can also visit our website at svt-av1-psy.com . Any support you can offer goes a long way, and we sincerely appreciate it. Binaries (SvtAv1EncApp) Linux builds: x86-64-v3 (AVX2) ------------> MD5 = 82bd9fea8888498bcc35f5ae986cae7d x86-64-v4 (AVX512) --------> MD5 = 650072893823ae7c28a779cdf32698e6 macOS builds: Coming soon! Windows builds: Coming soon enough. Unofficial Handbrake repository and builds can be found here: https://github.com/Nj0be/HandBrake-SVT-AV1-PSY Do note that 3.0.2 hasn't been pushed to Handbrake svt-av1-psy yet. Thanks for using SVT-AV1-PSY, and see you on the other side for SVT-AV1-PSYEX This discussion was created from the release v3.0.2: Supernova . 1 You must be logged in to vote All reactions Replies: 0 comments --> Sign up for free to join this conversation on GitHub . Already have an account? Sign in to comment Category 🙌 Show and tell Labels None yet 1 participant Heading Bold Italic Quote Code Link Numbered list Unordered list Task list Attach files Mention Reference Menu Heading Bold Italic Quote Code Link Numbered list Unordered list Task list Attach files Mention Reference Select a reply Loading Uh oh! There was an error while loading. Please reload this page . Create a new saved reply 👍 1 reacted with thumbs up emoji 👎 1 reacted with thumbs down emoji 😄 1 reacted with laugh emoji 🎉 1 reacted with hooray emoji 😕 1 reacted with confused emoji ❤️ 1 reacted with heart emoji 🚀 1 reacted with rocket emoji 👀 1 reacted with eyes emoji Footer © 2026 GitHub, Inc. Footer navigation Terms Privacy Security Status Community Docs Contact Manage cookies Do not share my personal information You can’t perform that action at this time. 